Ramsons reporting updates (#457)
folio-org/docs: content/en/docs/Reporting/Metadb/_index.md

---
title: "Metadb"
linkTitle: "Metadb"
date: 2024-12-04 
weight: 30
tags: ["parenttopic"]
---

<b>**Note**: This [WOLFcon 2024 presentation](https://youtu.be/ACBBSZ6Lx_s?feature=shared) gives an overview of the Metadb platform.
</b>

> In order for the Metadb software to connect to FOLIO, it needs read-only access to Okapi and the FOLIO database. The Metadb reporting database can be hosted and administered locally by an institution's own staff or by contracting hosting services out to a third party. You can find specific [system requirements](https://github.com/library-data-platform/ldp/blob/1.8.2/doc/Admin_Guide.md#2-system-requirements) in the Metadb documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for the Metadb software to connect to FOLIO, it needs read-only access to Okapi and the FOLIO database. The Metadb reporting database can be hosted and administered locally by an institution's own staff or can be contracted out to a third party hosting service. You can find specific [system requirements](https://github.com/library-data-platform/ldp/blob/1.8.2/doc/Admin_Guide.md#2-system-requirements) in the Metadb documentation.
```

### Documentation

For detailed information about how to set up and configure the Metadb software, please review this [link](https://github.com/library-data-platform/ldp#readme) to access individual links to guides in the Metadb repository. There you also will find the latest versions and fixes of the Metadb software.

## Setting up derived tables

To let report users take full advantage of the community-developed [report queries](../folio-analytics/#using-queries-from-the-folio-analytics-repository) as well as having a good starting point for [ad hoc querying](../folio-analytics/#ad-hoc-querying-using-ldp-tables), it is strongly recommended to set up a nightly update on [derived tables](https://github.com/folio-org/folio-analytics/blob/main/sql/derived_tables/README.md  ).

<b>
**Note**: Use of *views* and *materialized views* is not supported in Metadb databases and may cause the software to be unable to perform data updates.
</b>

You can find instructions in Github on how to set up [FOLIO Reporting Derived Tables](https://github.com/folio-org/folio-analytics/tree/main/sql/derived_tables#folio-reporting-derived-tables).

## Data privacy

> The Metadb software is designed to support GDPR and other data privacy requirements. Administrators can exclude a predefined set of tables. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Metadb software is designed to support GDPR and other data privacy requirements. Administrators can exclude a predefined set of tables.
```
